Minor improvements (#117)
seqeralabs/nf-training-public: asciidocs/channels.adoc

=== Value channels

A *value* channel (a.k.a. singleton channel) by definition is bound to a single value and it can be read unlimited times without consuming its contents. A `value` channel is created using the https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/channel.html#value[value] factory method or by operators returning a single value, such as https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#first[first], https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#last[last], https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#operator-collect[collect], https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#operator-count[count], https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#operator-min[min], https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#operator-max[max], https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#operator-reduce[reduce], and https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/operator.html#operator-sum[sum].

To better understand the difference between value and queue channels, save the snippet below as `example.nf`.

[source,nextflow,linenums]
----
ch1 = Channel.of(1,2,3)
ch2 = Channel.of(1)

process SUM {
    input:
    val x

>     val y
>     output:
>     stdout
>     script:
>     """
>     echo \$(($x+$y))
>     """

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    val y
    
    output:
    stdout
    
    script:
    """
    echo \$(($x+$y))
    """
```

Reviewer: Made the example a bit less dense.

----
ch1 = Channel.of(1)
println ch1
----

Then:

[source,nextflow]
----
nextflow run example.nf -dsl1
----

This will print:
[cmd,options="nowrap"]
----
DataflowQueue(queue=[DataflowVariable(value=1), DataflowVariable(value=groovyx.gpars.dataflow.operator.PoisonPill@34be065a)])
----

We have the value 1 as the single element of our queue channel and a poison pill, which will tell the process that there's nothing left to be consumed. That's why we only have one output for the example above, which is 2. Let's inspect a value channel now.

[source,nextflow,linenums]
----
ch1 = Channel.value(1)
println ch1
----

Then:

[source,nextflow]
----
nextflow run example.nf -dsl1
----

This will print:
[cmd,options="nowrap"]
----
DataflowVariable(value=1)
----

There is no poison pill, and that's why we get a different output with the code below, where `ch2` is turned into a value channel through the `first` operator.

[source,nextflow,linenums]
----
ch1 = Channel.of(1,2,3)
ch2 = Channel.of(1)

process SUM {
    input:
    val x
    val y
    output:
    stdout
    script:
    """
    echo \$(($x+$y))
    """
}

workflow {
    SUM(ch1,ch2.first()).view()
}
----

[cmd]
----
4

3

2
----

> Besides, in many situations Nextflow will implicitly convert variablers to value channels. When you run a
> process with a parameter (`params.example`), the content is just a string, for example, but when the process
> will receive it as a value channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides, in many situations, Nextflow will implicitly convert variables to value channels when they are used in a process invocation. For example, when you invoke a process with a pipeline parameter (`params.example`) which has a string value, it is automatically cast into a value channel.
```
